markdowns/Vathes-LLC-Announces-CEO-Appointment-As-Company-Forges-Ahead-On-Key-Priorities.md, before:

---
title: Vathes LLC Announces CEO Appointment As Company Forges Ahead On Key Priorities
date: 2021-02-01 12:22:22
tags:
- Vathes
- Press Release
categories: 
- News
---

**__[Press Release__]** HOUSTON, Texas, February 1, 2021 – As the Vathes LLC team focuses on key priorities to be delivered in the year ahead, the company’s Member Board is pleased to announce Dimitri Yatsenko’s appointment as CEO effective today.

Dr. Yatsenko co-founded the company in 2016, and has served as its President and, most recently, as VP of Research and Development. While taking on the broader role, he will continue to serve as the Principal Investigator on the National Institute of Health’s (NIH) five-year research and development project, "DataJoint Pipelines for Neurophysiology."

“I am honored to lead such a tremendous team with the work we have ahead of us. So much is happening across neuroscience with the exabytes of data being generated by leading labs across the U.S. and globally”, said Dr. Yatsenko on his appointment. “It is especially exciting that our company is positioned to contribute solutions that will help diverse research teams make sense of these oceans of data.”

Among the company’s key priorities is the development of a line of scientific database systems and cloud-based services designed to support collaborative neurophysiology experiments being pursued in the Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies [(BRAIN)](https://braininitiative.nih.gov/) Initiative, a large-scale national effort to accelerate neuroscience research. The technology being developed supplements advanced instrumentation with data analysis techniques, including machine learning, to extract complex patterns in neurocircuit activity, as well as enhance collaboration and data sharing in partnership with several research institutions.

Dr. Edgar Y. Walker, a co-founder of Vathes LLC, who served as CEO since May 2020 and VP of Engineering prior to that, will continue serving on the Member Board. He will continue pursuing advanced research at the intersection of neuroscience and machine learning at the University of Tübingen, Germany.

Commit message:

update titles, teams, and fix news wording

markdowns/Vathes-LLC-Announces-CEO-Appointment-As-Company-Forges-Ahead-On-Key-Priorities.md, after:

---
title: Vathes LLC Announces CEO Appointment As Company Forges Ahead On Key Priorities
date: 2021-02-01 12:22:22
tags:
- Vathes
- Press Release
categories: 
- News
---

**__[Press Release__]** HOUSTON, Texas, February 1, 2021 – As the Vathes LLC team focuses on key priorities to be delivered in the year ahead, the company’s Member Board is pleased to announce Dimitri Yatsenko’s appointment as CEO effective today.

Dr. Yatsenko co-founded the company in 2016, and has served as its President and, most recently, as VP of Research and Development. While taking on the broader role, he will continue to serve as the Principal Investigator on the National Institute of Health’s (NIH) $3.8 million five-year research and development project, "DataJoint Pipelines for Neurophysiology."

“I am honored to lead such a tremendous team with the work we have ahead of us. So much is happening across neuroscience with the exabytes of data being generated by leading labs across the U.S. and globally”, said Dr. Yatsenko on his appointment. “It is especially exciting that our company is positioned to contribute solutions that will help diverse research teams make sense of these oceans of data.”

Among the company’s key priorities is the development of a line of scientific database systems and cloud-based services designed to support collaborative neurophysiology experiments being pursued in the Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies [(BRAIN)](https://braininitiative.nih.gov/) Initiative, a large-scale national effort to accelerate neuroscience research. The technology being developed supplements advanced instrumentation with data analysis techniques, including machine learning, to extract complex patterns in neurocircuit activity, as well as enhance collaboration and data sharing in partnership with several research institutions.

Dr. Edgar Y. Walker, a co-founder of Vathes LLC, who served as CEO since May 2020 and VP of Engineering prior to that, will continue serving on the Member Board. He will continue pursuing advanced research at the intersection of neuroscience and machine learning at the University of Tübingen, Germany. 

**__About Vathes LLC__**  
Based in Houston’s Texas Medical Center (the largest medical center in the world), the Vathes LLC team is the principal developer of [DataJoint®]((https://datajoint.io)) Neuro, an open-source framework for shared scientific databases and computational data pipelines. The company’s mission is to enable scientific research teams to solve complex challenges by bringing scientific rigor and clarity to big data and computations. We help draw insights from complex data in neuroscience, machine learning research, and other fields.

The &quot;DataJoint Pipelines for Neurophysiology&quot; Project is supported by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke of the National Institutes of Health under Award Grant Number U24NS116470.

**__Media Contact__**   
Dimitri Yatsenko – CEO, Vathes LLC  
[dimitri@vathes.com](mailto:dimitri@vathes.com)

For more information about Vathes LLC and [DataJoint®](https://datajoint.io) Neuro, contact us or visit [djneuro.io](https://djneuro.io/)
